welcome to module 1 Lesson 12 budget and
performance review this is the seventh
step of the AP par Google ads audit
checklist let's open up our audit
checklist template and jump back into it
all right so we're here budget and
performance review this is where you're
going to need to do a lot of uh
exporting of data and I'm going to show
you how to do this for pulling the
budget performance by campaign if you're
not familiar with Excel it's a great
skill to development because we're going
to use pivot tables to just make our
life easier if you're edting a small
account it's not necessary you can just
pull the number in Google ads but if
you're dealing with a large account uh
this is where Excel is going to be your
best friend so let me just go and show
you so I went ahead and exported this
and I downloaded this into a CSV of this
campaign report and I'm going to open up
this campaign report and we're going to
format this so that uh we can see what
we need so I'm going to zoom in a little
bit
here and let's just go ahead and clean
this report up so I'm going to delete
these
header rows uh the totals here and what
we want to do is we're going to want to
create labels for these different things
that we want to report on so going back
to our checklist we want to know what is
the performance by Campaign theme so if
the account that you're auditing does
not have good naming conventions you're
going to have to go into the campaign
and understand what's the theme that
they're advertising on is it a brand
campaign is it a non-brand is it a
competitive campaign is it rlsa is it
content that it can take a lot of work
to do an extensive audit um so that's
why hopefully they do have good naming
conventions and you can just easily sort
by it but but if not then that's what
you'll have to do so I'm going to create
a custom column here of region so in my
case with this cayet all of their
campaigns are in North America so that
makes things pretty
easy uh so I just do North
America and uh and that's pretty much
the end of it but if it wasn't just
North America maybe like these were a
Mia then I would label those a Mia and
you know so on and so forth so I'm going
to actually put this into a
table so let's just put that there you
can just do command a on your keyboard
and then command t or control T and then
you can put into a table or you can just
do um you can do it through the the menu
so from there we've got our region
label uh I'm going to go now and create
one of theme so I need to label these
themes
so we've got different themes here so
competitive brand competitive non-brand
competitive so what I'm going to do is
I'm going to filter my campaign names
here by
non brand to find all the non-brand
ones
okay and let's go ahead and label that
so these are going to be all of our
non-brand
campaigns and we're going to just keep
doing this so now we'll do uh
brand and you got to be careful cuz
sometimes non-brand and brand are
similar
so looks like they only have
two okay
next is
competitive and we're going to label
those all right and let's see if we're
missing anything an easy way to know is
if you select all the
campaigns and you go by theme if you see
anyone that has a blank value then you
know you're missing one so we're good
we've got all of our themes we've got
our region let me go back here just
looking
ahead um I'll show you how to pull the
data for these in a sec but uh now let's
go and understand what's the spread of
budget and performance by Campaign theme
so if I come here and you don't like I'm
showing you guys how to do with Excel
assuming you know you have to do it with
no thirdparty tools but if you have some
sort of reporting platform you can use
that too but I'm just showing you how to
do it the manual
way so we've got our themes our region
I've got our visibility metrics here
I've got uh Impressions clicks ETR cost
conversions I've got sqls which is great
so I'm going to put this now into a
pivot
table and we're going to put the theme
as our row and then we'll put cost as
our
value and
conversions and now you can see I'll
zoom in here I can really easily see and
I can even
sort so I can see okay what have they
invested in the most versus the least so
let's just take a look
here so we've got uh 27k and non brand
five conversions 12K in brand 4.5 in
competitive and I can see the difference
in performance for each so now I can
grab these values and I can come back
here I can just leave a note to
myself I can say non
brand
brand and
competitive right just leave a not to
myself so now we have the budget spread
by theme and now we have the performance
so one thing I want to stress is if
you're using pivot tables and you're
using the label feature you're averaging
an average which is incorrect uh so what
you want to do is you want to create a
calculated field uh so the way you would
do that is you do that calculated field
and then you need to recreate the
formula so that it's accurate so if I
wanted to see cost per conversion I
would do cost divided by
conversions ideally I would do it not
just based on cost per conversions but
based on the conversion action the
client cares about out so it would be uh
sqls so that's what I'm going to do
cost uh divided by sales qualified
lead and I'm going to do cost per SQL
and I'm going to show you in a minute
what I mean by this so you can see it's
telling us our cost per SQL is
$3,671 and uh we can just double check
our work
here so if we take this and we divide it
by
this um let me see 27
342 let me see if I did this
wrong five
cost my conversions so we have
$546 and you can see we have 13,671
right so let's just take a look and see
where we went
wrong so
what do you think went wrong uh it's
because we have cost and this is the
conversion count so make sure you're
always looking at your headers right so
this is if we had five conversions but
we don't actually have five sqls because
conversions is the total and sqls is the
specific conversion action so make sure
you're always double-checking your work
when you're doing this because it's very
easy to make a mistake so now what we
would do is we remove conversions
and we would put
SQL and we would move it down here and
now you can
see if I put the correct number which is
two it's 13,671
13,671 now if I were to just put the
cost per SQL the standard fields from
what we got from Google ads you see it's
saying our cost per SQL is $898 which is
incorrect because if you take this
divided by this it's this and the reason
why it's cuz it's averaging an average
so just make sure you're always using a
calculated field for any of your cost
per metrics or any of your percentage
metrics so that way it uh renders
properly so anyways from here I can go
down this rabbit hole and spend time
mapping all this out but we've got
non-brand brand competitive so now I'm
just going to take a note of this and
um and just drop a note of like okay non
brand we have a cost per SQL of 13,6
71 and so on and so forth and I would go
down the line so I'll keep it there for
the sake of uh Simplicity and being
within our 10 minutes here but go ahead
and do the same for yourself and you're
going to want to figure out the spread
of budget and performance by each one of
these things in your account your action
item for this lesson is to review your
campaigns and Mark each completed step
within the template and uh go ahead and
use Excel and leverage the pivot table
functional if possible you can download
a device report you can download a match
type report all of that using the same
exact methodology just group The the
different rows together in a pivot table
to be able to report on performance I
hope you received a ton of value so bar
please share ad conversion with your
colleagues or leave us testimonial we
appreciate your help spreading the word
see you in the next one
[Music]